This is where another thought exercise
that literally considered and thought
about and then opted not to do, because
I think that it's probably a bad idea.
So these packed and unpacked items
are generated on the fly, right?
They're generated from taking the overall
list and you filter them, right?
If there were a lot of changes that
didn't involve them moving back and
forth between the two lists, right,
one thing I could do is I could wire up my
state management in a way
that had two lists, right?
And then I would manually have to
shuffle them back and forth, right?
And you'd want some unit tests with that,
even in that simple example,
you want to unit test.
And then I could then memorize or
have things based on each of those.
But then I'd have to have each of those
add, update, and remove functions.
And I would have to do the act of
shuffling them back and forth.
And sometimes, one, I don't actually
know of all that extra work and
having double of everything and following
stuff back and forth is worth it.
And two, the complexity cost is
also probably not worth it for
almost no performance gain, right?
But again, you have options, and
to always reach for one thing blindly,
is probably at least slightly problematic,
right?
But you can also again, you can get
a look at that flame chart and be like,
are the things that I'm
expecting to render or
rerender actually doing that in this case,
right.
One thing I'm curious about too,
just to look real quick,
is I would expect
an individual item isn't.
They're getting a new update and remove.
So, could we make this better?
I think we could.
Let's do it.
All right, as I said before, we're getting
the update if we pass either set items or
dispatch all the way through,
those stay static,
they don't get regenerated based on items.
All right, but then the problem
with passing set items through,
is what does it need?
I mean, theoretically,
it needs a list of items,
unless we use the function callback.
So let's do it.
I could do it either way.
We'll get the same effect.
Let's do it with a reducer, but also
using the function callback would work.
So check it out.
It's almost like I had pre baked reducer,
it does all the things that you think,
it adds stuff, it removes stuff,
so on and so forth.
So in this case, what we'll do is
we'll change this to, Use reducer.
We'll give it that get initial items,
Which is
literally just returning a JSON array.
I don't even know why it's a function.
And so this becomes called Items.
Yep and we'll call it dispatch now.
Now, dispatch just fires actions.
It doesn't actually need to know
what the current items are.
It's just saying, hey, this item,
we're toggling it, right?
And the reducer gets everything and
figures it all out, right?
As we know that setItems, if we still
had it, you could do this as well.
It's really, setState being a, or
useState being an abstraction over
useReducer it's not even to call them
different things, they do do either way.
It's different flavors of the same way.
This would give you a reference to the
current items that you would not have to
pass through.
But then, again, I know you could do it,
you could do it for some of these and
make it all kind of happen, right?
I'll leave that one the use reducer,
because it's just different and
I can make a point and
you can do some of the items here.
So now we're gonna pass dispatch all
the way through, which means really,
I get to do one of my
favorite things in the world.
Can't delete the two lists.
That one, and we can see that instead
of passing all these things through,
we literally just say.
Awesome.
Do it here as well.
I'll pass it to the others and probably
only to do the two lists in front of us
because it's just variations on a theme.
So pass it item list, in item list,
we will go ahead really didn't
need that at another time.
I wouldn't know the pain.
We'll swap out the fact that we're
given an update and remove and
we just give it that regular old dispatch.
And notice I got rid of all those
use callbacks that I wrote,
they're gone, right?
So by definition, this is going
to be slightly better for us.
And then the individual item,
setting an update and
remove I literally have on my clipboard.
Cool, and then we'll go down one,
one deeper.
Get rid of it again.
Now in so far that I'm very lazy,
the action creators have the same names.
So I just need to import them
So now the only thing
coming through is dispatch.
So that now wraps each of these,
these will dispatch those objects.
It doesn't need to know anything about the
items, it's just telling the reducer hey,
they said they wanted to
remove the one with this ID.
Reducer is like, yo I got all the items,
I'll figure it out.
I think that I'm accidentally getting
myself the reputation as a reducer fanboy,
and I'm here for it.
I don't have a problem.
So let's check it out.
You see that I don't have the individual
items flashing anymore, and
we'll verify that in the tools.
Right, sure.
The first time it was rendered,
probably once it changed.
But you can see at this point
it is not rerendering them,
because they're getting the same dispatch.
They are the same item in memory.
Because you just changed something,
the array is different.
All of the objects in that array are the
same ones unless you change them, right?
That's part of the promise of
the immutability, it's the same object.
So that was fine.
Just because it was a new
array full of objects,
doesn't mean the objects were different.
It's just a new box that they're in.
And so we got rid of all the use
callbacks that we just installed.
All we have is that react memo
that we had in the very beginning.
And yet we actually stopped
an entirely additional,
removing a use callback and
taking a different approach,
was more performant than
using the useCallback, right?
And that's kind of a running theme
that we have today, which is sure,
these tools are great.
But are they the best one, right?
Sometimes they are the right one.
Sometimes the trade offs are worth it,
but just being like,
you have to do this blindly every time,
is maybe not always the best way forward.
And we could do it with that items too.
Right, Let's go for a quick bonus round.
So we had use state.
That should give us what they get initial
items that we put in a function because we
learned something earlier.
This is now set items.
So in this case we'll now change this.
The joke I made the other day,
which is anywhere near tax
developers because multi cursor.
And if you hit some of the ones I didn't
fully wire up the dispatch they will
break, so just don't hit them.
Cool, you can pass all these through,
now what we should be able
to do as I go off roading,
is swap it in here And these are gonna
be slightly different now, I have those
helper functions that we're using.
So this is what update items.
This now gets, we'll give
the function version where it's like
all the items And
that takes all the items.
The reason I wrote these in
TypeScript was that I could
have help the current Item.id.
What's the other one?
And I need the updates.
In this case, it is just packed and
we're switching it.
I'm only going to wire up this
one just to make the point.
Grab the event.
Cool, actually we want just
the opposite of whatever it was,
just like we had before, right?
For name we might need that all but
we're just toggling us.
All right, so I have to this, we'll see
and then I will take Mark's question.
We broke it.
Mark, what's your question?
>> Why does use.
Reducer work better than useMemo and
useCallback
>> Because it doesn't need to be used
in useCallback at all, useCallback is
a way to say, hey don't give me a new
reference to this function
>> For these reasons.
But if any of those reasons change,
I need a new version of this function.
Dispatch is always the same one, right?
It doesn't ever change.
It is from the very beginning
of when you call that hook.
If it gives you a dispatch,
which will always be the same dispatch.
So it eliminates your need for
useCallback completely, the only reason we
needed useCallback because we were
whipping up functions on the fly.
If we're willing to pass down,
either the set items or dispatch,
basically they're effectively useCallback
way before we ever got it, right.
Here we're taking something that
was already useCallbacks and
wrapping it in another one.
>> All right.
So it's not necessarily that
they're better morally.
They're just, doing things less is
better than doing it more, yep.
>> Is there any performance
advantage in using Redux
over how you're using the reducers here?
>> Yeah.
So, like everything, it depends, right?
As I called it name for some reason?
We're doing packed on this one.
So having my talking type, but
so yeah, the question was,
is there advantages to using Redux?
So, there are advantages to is using
Redux, right, use reducer is great.
Awesome.
You get a reducer.
You get dispatch, cool, cool, cool.
Things you don't get, middleware.
Things you don't get, Redux dev tools.
A few other things you don't get is like
all of the TypeScript support that's
built in React to Redux.
Imagine once we get this thing now
rendering, that we're gonna pull it,
just hypothetically that
the next section was like,
let's wrap this thing in the context API,
right?
You will see that all the performance
gains that we got immediately go
away, right?
We'll get them back by doing
a bunch of work, right?
If you were to then do the same example as
an exercise to the reader like later and
just grab reactivated does
the simplest version.
You would see that you would have all
the performance gains out of the box for
free, right for two reasons, right?
Some of them are newer reasons and
an older reasons, right?
For two reasons.
One is that those performance
gains have been done for you.
Two is that modern React Redux,
at least the current version,
I don't know when this changed,
I verified by looking at the source
code like a week or two ago.
It doesn't use the context API,
it uses that sync external store.
I literally almost typed it a second ago.
And it uses that, which is like,
because by definition in React,
that user reducer is a hook, which means
it has to be defined in that function,
which means the store at least,
or that state.
Is new every time, right?
You think about when you set up Redux,
you're saying out even before you did your
first component, before you created that
route, you're like create store, right?
So that is a static object that is just
floating there, the same one in memory.
It has a get state method and a subscribe
which just tells you to call get state,
where it'll give you the newest and
most immutable version.
If that state hasn't changed,
you automatically get the same
object as you got last time.
It's only if it changed
that you get a new object.
The store itself isn't gonna change
cuz it's in the initial scope that you
defined it in.
So, is it simply, it's better in so
far that use reducer doesn't seek
to be a complete replacement.
It seems to be in that there
are certain distances that you will
definitely walk to and you'll be like,
I'm not taking a car there, right?
And then after a certain point, I'm
either gonna get the bike, or the car, or
something like that.
I think use reducers is like,
I need a little bit of a reducer,
I need something where I've got a form,
multiple things changing and
I'm deriving the state at the end.
Pulling in Redux this one feels like
a bit much, right, or what have you,
state management library of choice.
I like Redux, cool, cool, cool.
You might like mob x or
what have you, cool.
But there's usually, sometimes it's like,
is it really time for this yet?
Yeah?
>> [INAUDIBLE] Let's say just
use Redux for the global part and
use it to do search for the forms or
individual pieces, where it doesn't
feel like it's supposed to and global.
>> Exactly, that is that was
the point I was gonna make, so
I'm gonna repeat it like it was mine.
[LAUGH]
>> [CROSSTALK] so
maybe originally I thought what do
you meant, it's like either or.
>> It's not either or, right.
And so one of the things we talked
about in a different workshop together,
was different types of state.
There is your kind of your model, whatever
the business logic is of your application,
that stuff that a lot of would go
into the context API in some cases.
Or in Redux.
And then there's, yeah,
is this form valid, right?
You're not gonna put
that in your Redux store.
At the same time, it might have
enough complexity that you don't
want 17 sub-states, right, or
your states in there, right?
And so you're like, I just use one
reducer that checks all the fields and
figures out one list of all the errors.
So something along those lines, right?
Every time I've ever grabbed
a React form library,
it is about a week before
we throw it in the garbage.
And just write a reducer
that grabs all the values,
tells us all the errors that we can
unit test and call it a day, right?
And so yeah, for that ephemeral state,
is this accordion open or closed?
Is this form valid?
I would probably use reducer every time,
even if I had Redux in the codebase,
right.
I think it's a yes end.
But as I was talking and
typing at the same time,
I just named it named instead of pact.
And so it's like, yeah.
You can see that without
a single useCallback, just, yeah,
the React memos are still in there,
without a single useCallback,
I'm not re-rendering all those items and
just, just to keep myself honest.
You see that we get all of
the performance gains that we had before.
So again, the major point here
is that there is not one,
you have to do it this way all the time,
right?
There are different trade offs, there's
different things you could choose to do.
If I had a nest that threw a whole bunch,
right,
maybe I don't wanna do that anymore.
Maybe yeah, hey, the act,
maybe I gotta go 38 components.
And sure, maybe it is more
performant to do that, but there's
a likelihood that in the next month, we're
actually gonna have to move that box.
Over there,
right in a different part of the subtree.
And you measure the context API,
which we'll look at in a second, and
had no memorization or whatever.
And it's still wicked fast.
Yeah, do that, right.
I'm not saying don't use the context API.
I'm not saying don't use these things.
I'm saying definitely think about it,
definitely consider the options.
Do the thing that just is
React naturally first, right?
Or at least consider that first before
starting to cache and memorize things.
Cuz yeah, the second you're caching
values, if you mess that up,
you will get those weird bugs
that you cannot recreate.
And I say that as somebody who has lost
days of my life, not that long ago.
Embarrassing to admit how long ago,
within the last month or two,
to little things like that, because yeah,
it seemed more convenient at the time.
And now I have these squarely issues,
and it's just never worth it.
And so it's worth considering all
the options, what the trade offs are,
you might still choose to use useMemo,
useCallback, react.memo, absolutely.
My job is not to tell you which one to
do all the time, cuz there's no point.
I'd just give you a list and
I'd walk out of here, right?
My job is to basically,
here are the considerations.
All the things that could have been done
by the compiler, the framework, whatever.
The computer itself,
the microprocessor have been done,
we're left with the weird squishy
trade offs that could go either way,
that's in our day to day jobs
the problems that we're left with, right.